

This a model from the article:  
**Dynamics of HIV infection of CD4+ T cells.**   
Perelson AS, Kirschner DE, De Boer R. _Math Biosci_ 1993 Mar;114(1):81-125
[8096155](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8096155) ,  
**Abstract:**   
We examine a model for the interaction of HIV with CD4+ T cells that considers
four populations: uninfected T cells, latently infected T cells, actively
infected T cells, and free virus. Using this model we show that many of the
puzzling quantitative features of HIV infection can be explained simply. We
also consider effects of AZT on viral growth and T-cell population dynamics.
The model exhibits two steady states, an uninfected state in which no virus is
present and an endemically infected state, in which virus and infected T cells
are present. We show that if N, the number of infectious virions produced per
actively infected T cell, is less a critical value, Ncrit, then the uninfected
state is the only steady state in the nonnegative orthant, and this state is
stable. For N > Ncrit, the uninfected state is unstable, and the endemically
infected state can be either stable, or unstable and surrounded by a stable
limit cycle. Using numerical bifurcation techniques we map out the parameter
regimes of these various behaviors. oscillatory behavior seems to lie outside
the region of biologically realistic parameter values. When the endemically
infected state is stable, it is characterized by a reduced number of T cells
compared with the uninfected state. Thus T-cell depletion occurs through the
establishment of a new steady state. The dynamics of the establishment of this
new steady state are examined both numerically and via the quasi-steady-state
approximation. We develop approximations for the dynamics at early times in
which the free virus rapidly binds to T cells, during an intermediate time
scale in which the virus grows exponentially, and a third time scale on which
viral growth slows and the endemically infected steady state is approached.
Using the quasi-steady-state approximation the model can be simplified to two
ordinary differential equations the summarize much of the dynamical behavior.
We compute the level of T cells in the endemically infected state and show how
that level varies with the parameters in the model. The model predicts that
different viral strains, characterized by generating differing numbers of
infective virions within infected T cells, can cause different amounts of
T-cell depletion and generate depletion at different rates. Two versions of
the model are studied. In one the source of T cells from precursors is
constant, whereas in the other the source of T cells decreases with viral
load, mimicking the infection and killing of T-cell precursors.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Perelson AS, Kirschner DE, De Boer R. (1993) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/b69ca9baf6ee39a1b2f33c4568589ab5)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Ethan Choi**   
mcho099@aucklanduni.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

